---
cat: Resources
title: Definitions
id: '02'
---

## Anarchist  
A person that knows there could never be legitimacy to “authority.” 

## Arcana
Secret. (Latin: *__Arcana__*, Greek: *__Arcanum__*)

## Chaos
The opposite of the conditions which we truly want to manifest into physical reality.

## Consciousness
The ability of a being to recognise patterns and meaning within oneself, and in the realm in which it exists.

## Definition
Exact statement or description of the nature, scope, or meaning of a word, concept, or object.

## Diagnosis
By way of knowledge. (Greek: Dia - Gnosis)

## Force
Action that causes physical change which is in harmony with Natural Law; because it doesn’t cause harm to other sentient beings.

## Free
Not under the control or in the power of another; able to act or be done as one wishes.

## Great Work
The work of teaching Natural Law to others; after one has come to a definite understanding of its workings.

## Ignorance
To not know something even though necessary information is present; because that information is wilfully being ignored. (Latin: Ignorare)

## Initiation
To Begin. To Introduce. To Start.

## Jurisdiction
To say what the law is; to “decide” what right and wrong are. (Latin: Jus - Dictere)

## Justification
To “make” or “create” a right. (Latin: Jus - Facere)

## Knowledge
Available information.

## Law
An existing condition which is both binding and immutable.

## Maven
"One who understands". "Truely Awake". The word Maven derives from the Yiddish **_Meyvn_** and Hebrew word **_Mevyn_**. To be a Maven you have to be more than just understand a topic, you have to <b><u>know</u></b> its ins and outs, and act on the knowledge when it is required (wisdom). You don't become a Maven overnight, that kind of expertise and understanding comes with an accumulation of knowledge over the years.

## Natural
Having come from Spirit / God. (Egyptian: Neter)

## Natural Law
Natural Law is a set of universal, objective, eternal, non-man-made, binding and immutable conditions which govern the consequences of behaviours of beings with the capacity for understanding the difference between harmful and non-harmful actions.

## Nescience
To not know something because necessary information was absent or unattainable. (Latin: Nescire)

## Occult
Hidden from sight. (Latin: Occultus / Occultare)

## Order
The conditions which we truly want to manifest into physical reality.

## Order-Follower
A person that causes the currently existing system of slavery to remain in place.

## Petition
A formally drawn request, that is addressed to a person or group of persons in authority or power, soliciting some favour, right, mercy, or other benefit.

## Principle
That which comes first; that which is most important. (Latin: Principia)

## Religion
To hold back from forward progress. (Latin: Religare)

## Responsibility 
The ability to respond.

## Right
Correct and Moral. Any action which does not cause harm to another sentient being or their property.

## Self-Loathing
The underlying psychological condition that causes people to attempt to abdicate their own personal responsibility to exercise conscience, and fall into patterns of order-following and justification.

## Solipsist
A person that believes they are the only being in existence (Latin: Solus - Ipse)

## Statist
A person who erroneously believes in “authority.”

## Truth
All that has happened in the past, and that which is happening in the present moment; that which has been, and that which is.

## Violence
Action that causes physical change which is in not harmony with Natural Law; because it causes harm to other sentient beings.

## Wisdom
Either action, or inaction; based on knowledge and understanding.

## Wrong
Incorrect / immoral; actions that cause harm to other sentient beings.
