---
cat: Lesson
title: Brain Structure & Behaviour
id: '13'
---


Brain health plays a critical role in human behaviour, which is why it’s extremely important for people to become familiar with the brain’s basic structure and functions.

**The three main complexes that comprise the human brain are:**

1. The R-Complex (Reptilian Brain): Basic survival functions
2. The Limbic system (Mammalian Brain): Human emotion
3. The Neocortex (Human Brain): Higher thought functions andconsciousness

The R-Complex becomes active when we are in ‘fight-or-flight’ mode; when survival
is at stake. This part of the brain also controls basic motor skills and respiration.
It is comprised of the brainstem and the cerebellum. It is the lowest conscious part of
the brain, meaning it is not a “thinking” part of the brain, merely a part of the brain
that reacts to stimulus.

The Limbic system, also referred to as the ‘mid-brain,’ makes it possible for us to feel
in our physical realm. It does this by releasing neuropeptides into the bloodstream via
different glands that comprise the limbic system, for example: the pineal gland, the
thalamus, hypothalamus, pituitary gland etc. It is the part of our brain which makes all
human emotions possible. If this particular part of the brain would not function
properly, you would not be able to experience a normal range of human emotions.
This is partially what psychopathy is; with psychopaths this part of the brain does not
function properly. Which could be due to some form of birth disorder, or from chronic
conditions in somebody’s life which have “numbed” this particular part of the brain.

The Neocortex is structurally the highest part of the brain, and evolutionary the newest
part of the brain. The word ‘Neo’ derives from the Greek adjective ‘Néos (νέος)’
which means ‘New.’ It’s where all the electrochemical activity that comprise our
‘human modes of thought’ take place; that which we consider the things in thought
that make us human, and separate us from the animal kingdom.
By higher thought functions is meant, for example: logic, intuition, creativity etc.
It is essentially the outer layer of the brain’s grey matter. As far as evolutionary
development of the human brain goes, it is the newest part of our brain structure.

The two hemispheres of the brain are bilaterally symmetrical, meaning they are able to be
divided into approximate mirrored images of each other along the midline. The two separate
halves generally control different functions of the brain.

The left, intellectual part of the brain (masculine): logic, analytical thought, math etc.
And the right, intuitive part of the brain (feminine): creativity, intuition, compassion etc.
When there is a healthy balance between the two hemispheres of the brain, that’s when real
consciousness, and pattern recognition is developed. As well as true morality, and ethical
consideration.

Intellect is not the same as intelligence. Intellect is left brain understanding; while intelligence is holistic understanding, with the right brain included in the process.
The word ‘Intelligence’ is made up of ‘Intelli + Gence.’ The ‘Intelli’ part derives from the
word ‘Intellect,’ and ‘Gence’ comes from the Latin verb ‘Gignere’ which means ‘to Generate
/ to Create / to Bring forth.’ So, intellect + creativity, or logic + compassion etc., that is real intelligence; holistic intelligence. Sadly, most people in our society are not holistically intelligent, they are usually in some form of either left- or right brain imbalance.

If the left brain becomes chronically dominant, the R-Complex will take over executive
function of the brain, and the person will become ruled by selfishness and base desires. They
usually develop a personality based on domination and control.

If the right brain becomes chronically dominant, the Limbic System takes over executive
function of the brain, and the person will become ruled by their own emotions. They usually
develop a personality based on submissiveness and naïveté.