---
cat: Lesson
title: Right vs. Wrong
id: '20'
---

The concepts ‘Right’ and ‘Wrong’ are diametric opposites of one another. Right and wrong
do not merely exist as concepts in the human mind, anybody who believes that is engaged in
Satanism, whether they are aware of it or not. Explained in a way that’s completely
unambiguous; if you believe that there is no real difference between right and wrong, and that
this concept isn’t inherent in Nature, you are accepting a Satanic belief.
This is because the second tenet of Satanism is the concept of moral relativism (left brain
imbalance). There are four main tenets-, also referred to as the ‘pillars’ of Satanism:

1. Self-preservation is the highest aspiration: If they must step on others to save
themselves, they will have no problem doing so.
2. Moral relativism: To Satanists there is no such thing as the objective difference
between right and wrong behaviour. They consider ‘right’ to be what is ‘good for me’
and ‘wrong’ what is ‘bad for me.’ And that they themselves can make up the
difference between the two, based on their own personal likes and preferences.
3. Social Darwinism: A ruling class delegates itself the right to control and direct the
masses, because they believe they know better than the rest of humanity.
4. Eugenics: A social ideology advocating the promotion of higher rates of sexual
reproduction for people with traits and characteristics desired by its proponents – in
this case Satanists – and reduced rates of sexual reproduction, or even sterilisation for
those with undesired traits and characteristics. The word is derived from the Greek
adjective ‘Eugenes (εύγενής)’ which means ‘Well-born / of Good stock / of Noble
race.’ Which is in turn derived from the Greek adjective ‘Eu- (εὖ-)’ which means
‘Good / Well,’ and the Greek noun ‘Genos (γένος)’ meaning ‘Birth / Race / Stock.’

::todo
Insert chart
::


Morality is not about right versus left, it’s about right versus wrong.
A deep understanding of morality, and the principles concerning the distinction between right
and wrong behaviour, lies at the very heart of Natural Law.

Just as in ancient Rome the word ‘Liber’ meant ‘Book’ (Library), and ‘Free’ (Liberty)
simultaneously. The word ‘Right’ means ‘Correct’ and ‘Moral’ simultaneously, as does
‘Wrong’ mean ‘Incorrect’ and ‘Immoral’ simultaneously.

So, in the sense of what you ‘have a right to do,’ what is a right? – Any action in which you
are correct and moral in doing so. Every single person has the same rights as the next; not one
person has any more rights than another, nor any less rights, at any place, at any time.