---
cat: Lesson
title: Self loathing vs. self respect
id: '37'
---

People who don’t want to take responsibility and become adult human beings are in the
psychological condition of ‘Self-Loathing.’ What this means is, they hate themselves; nobody
that wants to perpetuate slavery can possibly love themselves.
Self-loathing is the underlying psychological condition that causes people to attempt to
abdicate their own personal responsibility to exercise conscience, and fall into patterns of
order-following and justification. Just as it is not possible for an order-follower to truly be
exercising conscience; it is also not possible for an order-follower to truly love themselves.
These states cannot exist simultaneously, for they are contradictory psychological conditions.
Self-loathing is created when an earlier trauma has been buried into the subconscious mind,
instead of being confronted, dealt with, and healed. Such trauma could form feelings of
inadequacy; whether they are real, suggested, or simply imagined.
A mind-set as such is a psychological prison, and yet, people suffering from self-loathing
usually don’t seem to have any desire for true freedom; ‘they are in the cage, and they love
being in the cage.’ The only kind of people that have no desire for real freedom, are people in
the psychological state of self-loathing, that do not love themselves.
Self-respect heals self-loathing; it is about introspection
(observation or examination of one's own conscious
thoughts and emotional state). The word ‘Respect’ is derived
from the Latin prefix ‘Re-’ which means ‘Again’ and the Latin
verb ‘Spectare’ which means ‘to Look at.’ – ‘to Take another
look at oneself,’ is where true respect starts.
You cannot give somebody something that you don’t already
own yourself. If you don’t have $10,- in your pocket you could
impossibly give it to someone else. You must obtain it first,
before you can give it away. Therefore, nobody can give
respect to anybody else unless they first developed it inwardly.
Self-respect must come first, which is why people in the state
of self-loathing don’t respect anybody, least of all themselves.
Only self-respect can heal self-loathing, and therefore help put an order-follower on the path
to exercising conscience.