---
cat: Lesson
title: Glossary
id: '44'
---

AnarchistA person that knows there could never be legitimacy to “authority.” – p. 37
ArcanaSecret. (Latin: Arcana, Greek: Arcanum) – p. 6
ChaosThe opposite of the conditions which we truly want to manifest into physical reality. – p. 25
ConsciousnessThe ability of a being to recognise patterns and meaning within oneself, and in the realm in
which it exists. – p. 13
DefinitionExact statement or description of the nature, scope, or meaning of a word, concept, or object.
– p. 11
DiagnosisBy way of knowledge. (Greek: Dia - Gnosis) – p. 9
ForceAction that causes physical change which is in harmony with natural law; because it doesn’t
cause harm to other sentient beings. – p. 31
Great WorkThe work of teaching natural law to others; after one has come to a definite understanding of
its workings. – p. 45
IgnoranceTo not know something even though necessary information is present; because that
information is wilfully being ignored. (Latin: Ignorare) – p. 8
JurisdictionTo say what the law is; to “decide” what right and wrong are. (Latin: Jus - Dictere) – p. 36
JustificationTo “make” or “create” a right. (Latin: Jus - Facere) – p. 28
KnowledgeAvailable information. – p. 18
LawAn existing condition which is both binding and immutable. – p. 11
NaturalHaving come from Spirit / God. (Egyptian: Neter) – p. 7
NescienceTo not know something because necessary information was absent or unattainable.
(Latin: Nescire) – p. 8
OccultHidden from sight. (Latin: Occultus / Occultare) – p. 6
OrderThe conditions which we truly want to manifest into physical reality. – p. 25
Order-FollowerA person that causes the currently existing system of slavery to remain in place. – p. 40
PrincipleThat which comes first; that which is most important. (Latin: Principia) – p. 19
ReligionTo hold back from forward progress. (Latin: Religare) – p. 36
RightCorrect / Moral; actions that don’t cause harm to other sentient beings. – p. 26
SolipsistA person that believes they are the only being in existence (Latin: Solus - Ipse) – p. 11
StatistA person who erroneously believes in “authority.” – p. 37
TruthAll that has happened in the past, and that which is happening in the present moment; that
which has been, and that which is. – p. 10
ViolenceAction that causes physical change which is in not harmony with natural law; because it
causes harm to other sentient beings. – p. 31
WisdomEither action, or inaction; based on knowledge and understanding. – p. 18
WrongIncorrect / immoral; actions that cause harm to other sentient beings. – p. 26