---
cat: Lesson
title: Recommanded Books
id: '45'
---

Recommended Books
Anarchism:
The Most Dangerous Superstition – Larken Rose
Authority:
Obedience to Authority – Stanley Milgram
Freedom:
The End of All Evil – Jeremy Locke
Government:
None Dare Call It Conspiracy – Gary Allen
Understanding Our Slavery – Etienne de la Boetie²
Toward a New World Order – Donald S. McAlvany
Hermetic Principles:
The Kybalion – The Three Initiates
Manipulation:
Mass Control: Engineering Human Consciousness – Jim Keith
Occult Knowledge:
The Secret Teachings of All Ages – Manly P. Hall

Most of these books can be found in pdf file format for free on the internet. But please
consider buying a physical copy, or making a donation to the authors for their work.
And please consider doing the same for Mark Passio, this thesis is based in its entirety on a
single presentation of his. All of his other presentations are well worth watching as well.
They can all be found on YouTube, or on his website www.WhatOnEarthIsHappening.com,
where he also does a weekly video-podcast on topics related to natural law, and many other
subjects of importance to achieving human freedom.


Natural law is a set of universal, objective, eternal, non-man-made, binding and immutable
conditions which govern the consequences of behaviours of beings with the capacity for
understanding the difference between harmful and non-harmful actions.

The understanding of natural law is centred upon bringing one’s own conscience into
alignment with objective morality. This means definitively knowing which behaviours are
rights; because they do not cause harm to other sentient beings, and which behaviours are
wrongs because they do cause harm to other sentient beings.

Living in harmony with natural law means exercising conscience, and wilfully choosing
morally right behaviour over morally wrong behaviour, once the difference between the two
is clearly understood.

When people begin to live in harmony with natural law in the aggregate, and are therefore
moral, they become and remain free. When people live in opposition to natural law, and are
therefore immoral, they become and remain enslaved.

If you want to come to a proper understanding of what natural law is exactly, and how it
works in the world around you. If you wonder how it came to be that relatively small groups
of people calling themselves governments control the lives of billions of people worldwide.
If you want to definitively know the difference between right and wrong behaviour, and make
a positive change in your own life and the lives of the people around you, this will be of
interest to you.

If you have any questions regarding any of the topics written about you can send me an
e-mail, and I’ll get back to you as soon as I can.

Please feel free to share this thesis with as many people you like.

Thank you.
