---
cat: -->
title: The Real Natural Law
id: 'Online Guide'
---

<div class="mt-10 mb-24 w-40 h-40 md:w-56 md:h-56 lg:w-72 lg:h-72 xl:w-80 xl:h-80">
  <app-icon name="sol" class="aspect-video lg:aspect-square w-full h-full fill-none stroke-current stroke-[10px]" />
</div>

<!-- Organized and well thought out interactive lessons for optimal and effective learning.  -->

::mono
You are free to share this guide with as many people you like. It is crucial to our freedom that more people will be exposed to this great body of knowledge and act on it.
::

<hr class="my-8 border border-b-4">

<span class="desc">As a whole, the body of knowledge presented here has the potential to <b class="font-bold underline">save humanity from its current state of slavery</b>.</span>

## Natural Law
Natural Law is a set of universal, objective, eternal, non-man-made, binding and immutable conditions which govern the consequences of behaviours of beings with the capacity for understanding the difference between harmful and non-harmful actions.


## Objective Morality
The understanding of Natural Law is centred upon bringing one’s own conscience into alignment with objective morality. This means definitively knowing which behaviours are rights; because they do not cause harm to other sentient beings, and which behaviours are wrongs because they do cause harm to other sentient beings.

## Exercising Conscience
Living in harmony with Natural Law means exercising conscience, and wilfully choosing morally right behaviour over morally wrong behaviour, once the difference between the two is clearly understood.

## Cause & Effect
When people begin to live in harmony with Natural Law in the aggregate, and are therefore
moral, they become and remain free. When people live in opposition to Natural Law, and are
therefore immoral, they become and remain enslaved.


## Positive Change
If you want to come to a proper understanding of what Natural Law is exactly, and how it
works in the world around you. If you wonder how it came to be that relatively small groups
of people calling themselves governments control the lives of billions of people worldwide.
If you want to definitively know the difference between right and wrong behaviour, and make
a positive change in your own life and the lives of the people around you, this will be of
interest to you.

::mono
If you have any questions regarding any of the topics written about you can join our [Telegram](https://t.me/thefreemavens) group and start a conversation.
::
