---
cat: Base
title: Teachability
id: '02'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=660"></youtube>

<span class="desc">
A person’s teachability, or their ability to learn by being taught by another, is extremely dependent upon the open-mindedness or closed-mindedness of the person being taught.
</span>

## Low Teachability
Low teachability derives from arrogance and rigid scepticism, but also from naïveté and gullibility.

## High Teachability
High teachability derives from a balance between healthy scepticism and an open- minded willingness to learn, and more importantly, the willingness to change.

## Consider Your Sources
People should consider with great care their sources for information. Because by refusing to present certain information, and by influencing people to dismiss certain information as unimportant or unnecessary to consider, many modern institutions (like the mainstream media, or so-called “educational” institutions) seek to control human perceptions, and by doing so, limit what human beings may come to understand. By limiting what a person is able to understand, a person is automatically limited in what they are able to do, what they are able to change, and what they are able to create.

So again, you should not just believe anything you read here.
You need to look into the information written about in this guide for yourself, and most importantly, personal  introspection is necessary; to really feel within whether or not this information resonates with  truth. Every person has that intuitive capacity to a certain degree.