---
cat: Base
title: Natural Law
id: '05'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=1623"></youtube>

<span class="desc">Natural Law is a set of universal, objective, eternal, non-man-made, binding and immutable conditions which govern the consequences of behaviours of beings with the capacity for understanding the difference between harmful and non-harmful actions.</span>

## Etymology
The word *__Natural__* is derived from the Egyptian word *__Neter__* (also *__Ntr__*) which translates to "Spirit, God" and the suffix *__-al__*, which, just as in English, means: "Related to, of, having come from". Therefore, it can be readily seen that the word *__Natural__* _(Neter + -al)_ means "Related to- or, having come from Spirit or God".

## Meaning
Natural Law means the universal spiritual laws which govern the consequences of behaviour for intelligent species; Beings that are capable of coming to an understanding of their own existence, and their consciousness. And also capable of understanding the objective difference between harmful and non-harmful behaviour towards themselves and other beings. This does not include the animal kingdom. For the very same reason you wouldn’t attempt to teach mathematics to your cat or dog, this same goes for animals understanding Natural Law. This is because we don’t share the same level of consciousness.

<!-- There are differences in levels of consciousness, and a being’s abilities to comprehend information. Not every being has the ability to come to an understanding of how something like Natural Law works. Therefore, we are held to different standards when it comes to us understanding Natural Law. -->

## Power Differential
Sadly, within the human population such knowledge also isn’t commonly known, because it has been deliberately hidden in order to create and maintain a power differential between those who know that information, and those who are ignorant of it.

##  Level the Playing Field
The knowledge of Natural Law and the way it operates constitute some of the most deeply occulted information on Earth, which the powers that be seek to keep hidden from the people, because the understanding of this information would level the playing field and put an end to the currently operating systems of control.