---
cat: Base
title: 'Nescience vs. Ignorance: the Contexts of Not Knowing'
id: '06'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=2171"></youtube>

<span class="desc">We should make a very clear distinction between <span class="font-bold border-b">Nescience</span> and <span class="font-bold border-b">Ignorance</span>, so that the difference between these two concepts is fully understood.</span>

::mono
The term nescience is one that has been practically “deleted” from colloquial English.
::

<span class="mb-8 invisible"></span>

## Nescience
There are two contexts to not knowing something; the first term ‘Nescience’ is derived from the Latin verb ‘Nescire,’ which means ‘to Not know something because necessary information was absent or unattainable.’ The prefix ‘Ne-’ in Latin means ‘Not / Not Present / Absent.’ The second part of the word nescience is derived from the Latin verb ‘Scio / Sciero’ which means ‘I know.’

Therefore, in case of nescience it is impossible for a person to aggregate necessary information. Contrary to ignorance, nescience isn’t a person’s fault; the information simply isn’t available for them to perceive.

## Ignorance
The term ‘Ignorance’ is derived from the Latin verb ‘Ignorare’ which means ‘to Not know something, even though necessary information is present; because that information has been wilfully refused or disregarded.’ This is usually because of disinterest or contradicting beliefs. Ignorance, contrary to nescience, carries blame. Because the person has wilfully chosen to ignore the information.

For the vast majority of people this information is readily available to them, but most people choose to ignore it because they feel they don’t need to know it, or because it contradicts something they believe in. Therefore, we live in an ignorant society.

## Your Master Key
What this guide constitutes is a master-key it is accepted (not believed). This process starts by perceiving truth’s presence, acknowledging truth’s presence, accepting it for what it truly is, and then finally and most importantly, to do something with it.

Understanding this information is not where this work ends; taking in this knowledge and understanding it is only the beginning. If you want to create change, action is required.

## Courage to Change
People often say, ‘change happens in the heart’ or ‘change happens in the mind,’ which is true, but lastly it happens in the guts. If you have the “guts” to do something, you have developed the courage to do something. We must develop all three, heart, mind and guts; we must care enough to know, and then finally convert that knowledge into action. Because taking action is the most important step towards creating change in the physical realm.

::mono
Knowledge --> Understanding --> Action
::
