---
cat: Base
title: Truth vs. Perception
id: '08'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=3420"></youtube>

For some reason, when people hear the term **_Truth_** most tend to immediately jump to
incredibly mystified concepts of what truth is (to them); starting to immediately relate the
concept to God, or something else that is completely irrelevant. All this is, is mystification and obfuscation of what truth actually is.

Perception is not equal to reality or truth. For example, when a person who is visually  impaired removes their glasses. Reality (truth) will remain the same, while the perception of that individual may drastically change.

<span class="desc">Truth is objective, meaning it is not based on the perceptions of human beings. This alone can be seen as an assault on the human ego; as everybody likes to think their perceptions are important and accurate.</span>

## Perceptions
People’s perceptions can differ slightly from the truth, or they can differ wildly from the truth. The truth does not waver, it does not move, bend, or change; it is that which is. It doesn’t matter whether anybody believes it, knows it, sees it, nor if anybody wants to see it. It’s there, it has always been there, and it will always be there. Nobody can change what has already happened, the past can impossibly be altered. Unlike the future; and the alteration of the future begins in the present moment.

## Truth
All that truth is, is all that has happened in the past, and that which is happening at the present moment. That which is, and that which has been.

Whenever the term **_Truth_** is used in this guide, that is all that is being referred to.
In the picture shown here, imagine the white lines which do not waver to be truth, and every coloured line to be the perception of an individual. Their ability to perceive what has occurred, and what is occurring, can be referred to as consciousness (a being’s ability to
recognise patterns and meaning inside, and around themselves), which can be either accurate, or inaccurate.

::todo
Add Diagram
::

<span class="mb-8 invisible"></span>

In case of a low frequency vibration (red line), the wavelength will be longer, and the wave
won’t frequently hit the white line. In case of a high frequency vibration (blue line), the wavelength will be a lot shorter, and the wave hits the white line a lot more frequently.
The higher the frequency of a person’s consciousness is, the more their wave of perception
hits the unwavering line of truth.