---
cat: Base
title: Solipsism
id: '09'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=4541"></youtube>

<span class="desc">Solipsism is a completely egocentric and destructive ideology, that has absolutely no resemblance to truth in any way.</span>

::mono
People who are solipsists, whether they know they are or not, usually have a destructive influence on society.
::

<span class="mb-8 invisible"></span>

## Etymology

The word **_Solipsism_** is derived from the Latin adjective **_Solus_** which means "Alone", or "Only"
and the Latin pronoun **_Ipse_** which means "Self", or "Myself" – "Only myself", or "the Self alone".

## Ideology
The ideology of a solipsist is: "Nothing exists outside of me, I am the only being that exists in creation, and everything I perceive is created by me". Or in other words, "I am God". They believe that their perception is the only real perception, and that nobody else outside themselves truly even exists.

What this guide teaches, is that your perception isn’t always truth. You have to work to align your perceptions with the truth. Hearing this can already be damaging enough to the ego for some people. But what a solipsist believes is that you don’t even exist, and your existence is fully based on his or her perception. Therefore, in their mind, so are your perceptions.

## The Third Sin
Solipsism also happens to be the third sin of Satanism, meaning that Satanists don’t want any
solipsism within their own community of followers, but they think it’s fine for others to live according to this ideology. The first sin of Satanism happens to be stupidity, which is also something that is looked down upon within their community, but considered fine for others.


## Comfortable Ignorance
In short, solipsism is the ideology that only one’s own mind is sure to exist. Solipsists contend that knowledge of anything outside one’s own mind is unsure. Therefore, to them, there is no such thing as objective truth, and nothing about the external world and its workings can actually truly be known.

::mono
This state of mind only ensures a person to feel comfortable in their ignorance and laziness.
::