---
cat: Base
title: Definition of Natural Law
id: '10'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=5163"></youtube>

Before we look at the definition of Natural Law, let’s look at the definition of the word **_Definition_** – "An exact statement or description of the nature, scope, or meaning of a word, concept, or object. Also, the degree of clarity of an object, image, or sound; for example, a high definition television."

::mono
To define is to make something (de)finite, as opposed to infinite.
::

<span class="mb-8 invisible"></span>

The more accurate our definitions for words or concepts are, the better our clarity of meaning, and therefore, our understanding of those words or concepts will be. Therefore, ‘Definition’ means ‘Clarity of meaning’ when applying it to words and concepts.

Since most of this guide is going to be about Natural Law from here on out, you must know the
definition of the concept:

## Natural
Inherent, or Having a basis in Nature, reality, and truth. Also, not made or caused by humankind.

## Law
An existing condition which is both binding and immutable (cannot be changed).

## Working Definition

<span class="desc">Universal, non-man-made, binding and immutable conditions that govern the consequences of behaviour for all intelligent beings. Natural Law is a set of universal spiritual laws which act as the governing dynamics of consciousness.</span>

## The Science of Natural Law
Natural Law is a testable hypothesis, meaning it is testable by scientific methodology:

- Question →  
- Gather information →  
- Hypothesise →  
- Observe →  
- Analyse and test data →  
- Draw conclusion →  
- Communicate your results.

::mono
Natural Law is not a religion or a belief system, but a science.
::

