---
cat: Base
title: Consciousness & the Brain
id: '12'
---

<youtube params="rel=0&start=6599"></youtube>

## Definition

**_Consciousness_** is the ability of a being to recognise patterns and meaning with respect to events taking place; both within oneself, and in the realm in which the being exists and operates. In other words...

::mono
Consciousness is the ability to accurately perceive truth; that which has happened, and that which is happening at the present moment.
::

<hr class="my-8 border-b-4"></span>

## Expressions of Consciousness
The abilities we have, to make ourselves known to any other being around us. These expressions are:

## Thoughts
Creative (neutral) force. (both Masculine and Feminine).  

## Emotions:
Internal expression. (Feminine).   

## Actions
Result of thought and emotion being expressed into the physical realm. (Masculine)

Like in almost all major religious traditions, this represents the ‘Holy Trinity’:
The father creator (thoughts), and the sacred feminine figure (emotions), which the father
figure impregnates or inseminates in some way. From that offspring a male child is born, always. The birth of this male child symbolises that the ‘saviour’ of humanity will be action; faith alone will not be enough.

Even in modern Christianity, in their own exoteric scriptures, there is only one prescription
that the Christ-figure gives to the people when asked about freedom (John 8:32) -

::mono
You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
::