---
cat: Base
title: Brain Structure & Behaviour
id: '13'
---

<youtube id="OGaIi3Bo1hM" params="rel=0&start=20"></youtube>

<span class="desc">Brain health plays a critical role in human behaviour, which is why it’s extremely important for people to become familiar with the brain’s basic structure and functions.</span>

**The three main complexes that comprise the human brain are:**

1. The R-Complex (Reptilian Brain): Basic survival functions
2. The Limbic system (Mammalian Brain): Human emotion
3. The Neocortex (Human Brain): Higher thought functions andconsciousness

## R-Complex
The R-Complex becomes active when we are in ‘fight-or-flight’ mode; when survival is at stake. This part of the brain also controls basic motor skills and respiration. It is comprised of the brainstem and the cerebellum. It is the lowest conscious part of the brain, meaning it is not a “thinking” part of the brain, merely a part of the brain that reacts to stimulus.

## Limbic system
The Limbic system, also referred to as the ‘mid-brain,’ makes it possible for us to feel in our physical realm. It does this by releasing neuropeptides into the bloodstream via different glands that comprise the limbic system, for example: the pineal gland, the thalamus, hypothalamus, pituitary gland etc. It is the part of our brain which makes all human emotions possible. If this particular part of the brain would not function properly, you would not be able to experience a normal range of human emotions.

This is partially what psychopathy is; with psychopaths this part of the brain does not function properly. Which could be due to some form of birth disorder, or from chronic conditions in somebody’s life which have “numbed” this particular part of the brain.

## Neocortex
The Neocortex is structurally the highest part of the brain, and evolutionary the newest part of the brain. The word ‘Neo’ derives from the Greek adjective ‘Néos (νέος)’ which means ‘New.’ It’s where all the electrochemical activity that comprise our ‘human modes of thought’ take place; that which we consider the things in thought that make us human, and separate us from the animal kingdom. By higher thought functions is meant, for example: logic, intuition, creativity etc. It is essentially the outer layer of the brain’s grey matter. As far as evolutionary development of the human brain goes, it is the newest part of our brain structure.

<hr class="my-8 border-b-4"></span>

## Brain Hemispheres

The brain structure also include two hemispheres which are bilaterally symmetrical, meaning they are able to be divided into approximate mirrored images of each other along the midline. The two separate halves generally control different functions of the brain.

## Left Brain
The left hemisphere is the intellectual part of the brain (masculine): logic, analytical thought, math etc.

## Right Brain
The right hemisphere is the intuitive part of the brain (feminine): creativity, intuition, compassion etc.

::mono
When there is a healthy balance between the two hemispheres of the brain, that’s when real consciousness, and pattern recognition is developed. As well as true morality, and ethical consideration.
::

## Intellect ≠ Intelligence
Intellect is not the same as intelligence. Intellect is left brain understanding; while intelligence is holistic understanding, with the right brain included in the process.

The word **_Intelligence_** is made up of **_Intelli_** + **_Gence_**. The "Intelli" part derives from the word "Intellect", and "Gence" comes from the Latin verb **_Gignere_** which means "to Generate, to Create, or to Bring forth". So, intellect + creativity, or logic + compassion etc., that is real intelligence; holistic intelligence. Sadly, most people in our society are not holistically intelligent, they are usually in some form of either left- or right brain imbalance.

## Brain Imbalance
If the left brain becomes chronically dominant, the R-Complex will take over executive function of the brain, and the person will become ruled by selfishness and base desires. They usually develop a personality based on domination and control.

If the right brain becomes chronically dominant, the Limbic System takes over executive function of the brain, and the person will become ruled by their own emotions. They usually develop a personality based on submissiveness and naïveté.