---
cat: Base
title: Human Nature
id: '15'
---

<youtube id="OGaIi3Bo1hM" params="rel=0&start=2047"></youtube>

<span class="desc">Human nature is neither inherently good, nor bad. Instead, we should consider the operating conditions, and the environment in which human beings exist, that influence their behaviour to a great extent; thus, creating the current human condition.</span>

What is the nature of a computer? – To compute information; which is nor good, nor bad.

## Like a Computer
Human nature is to take in information, process it, and output in the form of behaviour. Human beings are not computers, however, much like a computer, human beings are programmable.

Similar to a computer, if a human has a bad "file-system format" (conditions during a child's formative ears), a bad “operating system” (culture / environment), and bad “software programs” (erroneous, rigid, and dogmatic beliefs), their “output” (behaviour) onto the “screen” (life) will also be bad. Therefore, these people will contribute to deteriorating conditions on a mass scale, for themselves, and all other beings around them.

The behaviour of any person will largely depend upon his or her programming; the quality of the information being taken in by them, which enables them to process and create efficiently.

- Garbage in ---> Garbage out
- Quality in ---> Quality out

## Knowledge
(Or lack thereof): Available information – This constitutes potential knowledge that may be generated,
processed, understood, and acted upon by individuals.

## Understanding
(Or lack thereof): Decision-making process – These processes take place in the mind and are chosen by each
individual based upon available information.

## Wisdom
(Or lack thereof): Human behaviour – Each individual’s behaviour is based upon the quality of their decision-
making processes. Which are based upon the quality of their available information.

::mono
Wisdom is not the same as knowledge or understanding.
::

Wisdom is either action, or inaction, always. It is knowledge and understanding which has
been applied. For example, knowledge is knowing a tomato is a fruit, wisdom is not putting it in a fruit
salad.

## Generated Result
(Order or chaos): Manifested reality – The quality of the condition which manifests in any society is based upon the aggregate quality of human behaviour within that society.
 