---
cat: Base
title: Natural Law Expressions
id: '19'
---

<youtube id="OGaIi3Bo1hM" params="rel=0&start=7355"></youtube>

<span class="desc">These expressions are the recognisable workings of Natural Law that manifest through <b class="font-bold underline">five basic expressions</b>, which each have a <b class="font-bold underline">positive</b> and a <b class="font-bold underline">negative</b> aspect. Giving us a total of ten overall Natural Law expressions.</span>

::todo
Insert Chart
::

<hr class="my-8 border-b"></span>


## 1. Love / Fear

**Positive:**    
The positive aspect of the Generative Polarity is **_Love_**. In regard to Natural Law,
love should be seen as the expansive force for consciousness. Love is the force which helps us become open to truth, and expand our awareness.  

**Negative:**    
The negative aspect of the generative polarity is **_Fear_**. In regard to Natural Law, fear should be seen as the contractive force for consciousness. Fear is the force which influences us to become closed to truth, and the force which ultimately shuts down our awareness.

<hr class="my-8 border-b"></span>


## 2. Knowledge / Ignorance

**Positive:**  
The positive aspect of the Initiating Expression is **_Knowledge_**,or the acceptance of truth. Knowledge of truth positively influences our decision-making processes in every area of our lives.  

**Negative:**  
The negative aspect of the initiating expression is **_Ignorance_**, or the refusal of truth. Ignorance negatively influences the quality of our lives because it negatively influences our decision-making processes in every area of our lives.

::mono
It is important to remember that "Ignorance" should be distinguished from "Nescience". Nescience means not knowing something because necessary information is not present, or unattainable. Ignorance, on the other hand, means not knowing something even though necessary information is present, because that information has been wilfully refused or disregarded.
::

“If a nation expects to be ignorant and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what
never was and never will be.” – Thomas Jefferson, 3rd president of the U.S.A.

“The only good is knowledge, and the only evil is ignorance.”
– Socrates, Greek philosopher

<hr class="my-8 border-b"></span>

## 3. Sovereignty / Confusion

**Positive:**  
The positive aspect of the Internal Expression is **_Sovereignty_**, or what is also referred to as **Internal Monarchy** (one ruler within). 

The word "Monarchy" is made up of the prefix **_Mon-_** derived from the Greek adverb **_Mons_** (μόνα) which means "One, Single, or Alone" and the Greek noun **_Archon_** (αρχων) which means "Master, Lord, or Ruler". Therefore, Monarchy means "One Ruler".

::mono
As a state of consciousness, sovereignty means that one has unified the three aspects of their consciousness, in the way that there is no contradiction between one’s thoughts, emotions, and actions.
::

The word "Sovereign" is derived from the Latin adverb **_Super_** which means "Above, or Beyond" (In classical Latin the **_V_** character represented a **_U_**, hence the letter "W" is called a "double U". The "V-sound" didn’t phonetically exist in classical Latin, instead the "V" was represented by the letters "P" or "B"). The second half stems from the word **_Regnum_** which means "Reign, Rulership, or (externally imposed) Control, or Kingship". Thus, the word "Sovereign" means: "One who is above the rulership or control of another". Therefore, the word sovereign means "not a slave". Being sovereign means being a monarch (**_Mon-_**: "One", **_Archon_**: "Ruler"), a single ruler who rules only the "kingdom of self". Sovereignty is a state of being in which one controls one’s own thoughts, emotions, and actions, and by bringing them into Unity, Non-Contradiction, Non-Duality, attains mastery of one’s own consciousness. Self-Control is Self-Mastery is Self-Ownership.

**Negative:**  
The negative aspect of the internal expression is **_Confusion_**, or what is also referred to as **Internal Anarchy** (no ruler within). Confusion is the state of mind in which the being is ruled by fear and ignorance. Confusion can be seen as internal opposition, in such a way that one’s thoughts, emotions, and actions are in perpetual contradiction with one another; the three are not in alignment. As we think is not how we truly feel, and is not how we act. There is complete contradiction and separation internally, when there is no unity amongst these three aspects of our consciousness.

<hr class="my-8 border-b"></span>

## 4. Freedom / Control

**Positive:**  
The positive aspect of the External Expression is ‘Freedom,’ or what is also
referred to as ‘External Anarchy’ (no external ruler). True freedom for all beings
should be seen as the ultimate goal of spiritual development. And such a state can only
manifest as a result of human society’s adherence to Natural Law.

**Negative:**  
The negative aspect of the external expression is ‘Control,’ or what is referred to as
External Monarchy (one external ruler). For example, the concentration of illusory
power by a king, or by institutions like government.
Externally imposed control is the pathway to all forms of evil and destruction. It
results when a society lives in direct opposition to Natural Law.

<hr class="my-8 border-b"></span>

## 5. Order / Chaos

**Positive:**  
The positive Manifestation is ‘Order,’ or manifested good. Order represents
everything we truly want to manifest. Order results only when there is balance and
justice; which can only be present when truth has been accepted, and our behaviour
has been brought into harmony with Natural Law.

**Negative:**  
The negative manifestation is ‘Chaos,’ or manifested evil. Chaos is the exact
opposite of what we truly want to manifest. Chaos occurs when there is imbalance and
injustice, which results whenever there is ignorance of truth, and behaviour which is in
opposition to Natural Law.

<hr class="my-12 border-b-4"></span>

<span class="desc">All five expressions of Natural Law are <b class="font-bold underline">unilateral</b>, meaning they do not cross over into one another.

Therefore, there is no way you could accept truth and develop knowledge, and then end up in a state of confusion. Just as you cannot go from ignorance to sovereignty. The Natural Law expressions simply don’t work that way.

::mono
If you keep waiting on an external saviour, you are going to be waiting in your chains forever.
::

Even the modern Christ-figure himself proclaimed that the knowledge of truth would be the only pathway to true freedom. Until you take in the light, you will never dispel the darkness. The light being knowledge of truth; which is what ‘light’ has always symbolized and represented in the bible, and in numerous other ancient mystery traditions. “The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness can never extinguish it.” – John 1:5
