---
cat: Base
title: Natural Law Transgressions
id: '22'
---

::mono
Part 1 -->
::

<youtube id="OGaIi3Bo1hM" params="rel=0&start=11532"></youtube>

::mono
Part 2 -->
::
<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=2"></youtube>

<span class="desc">Five most harmful actions under Natural Law:</span>

## Murder & Assault
Ending a life without the right to do so. If a being is killed in the act of somebody defending themselves, it is not murder.
Under no possible circumstance does the “right to murder” or the “right to assault” exist. However, the right to defend oneself through physical force exists at all times.

## Rape
Coercing the free will of another person, and making them sexually associate with whom they wish not to.

## Theft
Taking what somebody else has created or acquired through lawful means, which is their property for as long as they are using it and being responsible for it. You have no right to just take something that does not belong to you.

## Trespass
Every person has the right to set aside a (reasonably sized) space for themselves. And invading this area without permission or consent would be invading their privacy and their personal space, while taking away their security in the process.

## Coercion
Forcing somebody through threat of violence to have their will comply with yours, whether they wish that to be the case or not. Making somebody do something against their will is not a right. Although this is already a short and seemingly simple list, all these transgressions can ultimately be narrowed down to just one wrong-doing: Theft.

::mono
Every harmful action that a person is capable of taking is a form of theft. Some form of property is always being stolen when a wrong-doing is committed.
::

<hr class="my-8 border-b-4"></span>

## Property Types
- Life is a form of property.
- Rights are a form of property.
- Freedom is a form of property.
- A person’s own body is a form of property.

## No Victim, No Crime

A living being or their property must have been harmed or damaged in order for a violation of Natural Law, or a wrong-doing to have taken place. Any action which does not cause such harm to other sentient beings is a right. – No victim, no crime. This is the fundamental crux of Natural Law; what is right behaviour, and what is wrong behaviour.

## No Delegation

There is no such thing as the delegation of a wrong-doing. In other words, if a specific action is not a right for any individual, then that action cannot be "delegated", "granted", or "licensed" to any other individual, or group of individuals, and suddenly be called a right. That action forever remains wrong under Natural Law.

::mono
Rights can’t be granted to human beings by other human beings, because rights don’t come from human beings.
::

## Equal Rights
Everybody is born with the exact same rights. Natural Law (the difference between right and wrong behaviour) always holds true regardless of a population’s belief systems (culture). This means that it doesn’t matter how many people agree that a wrong action can be turned into a right action, or that a right action can be turned into a wrong action.

Such things can never be done in reality. People can only believe they can claim such reversals and that this will in some way make it so. Unfortunately, at this moment in time most people do erroneously believe that it is morally possible for some groups of people to create and delegate "rights" which do not exist, or to take away rights which do exist.

## A World with Only Two People
When in doubt as to whether an action is, or is not in harmony with Natural Law, visualise the scenario of a world with only two people.

If the behaviour is a right or a wrong in that instance, it shall forever remain a right or a wrong in any size population, regardless of how many people may believe otherwise. So, if the action is a right for one person to do toward another, it shall always remain a right. And if the action is a wrong for one person to do toward another, it shall always remain a wrong, regardless of the number of people involved.