---
cat: Base
title: Equality Under Natural Law
id: '31'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=3834"></youtube>

<span class="desc"><b class="font-bold underline">Everyone has the exact same rights</b>. Nobody has any more or any less rights than anyone else.</span>

## Not Granted or Gifted
Since rights are not created by humanity, and since they are the birth-right of humanity, gifted to us by the Creator of the universe. Not a single person or group of people is capable of "granting" or "gifting" rights to anyone else, nor is any person capable of revoking rights from anyone else. Including Governments.

<!-- Government is nothing but men acting in concert. The morality and value of government, like any other association of men, will be no greater and no less than the morality and value of the men comprising it. Since government is nothing but men, its inherent authority to act is in no way greater or different than the authority to act of individuals in isolation. Government has no ‘magic powers’ or ‘authority’ not possessed by private individuals. Let he who asserts that government may do that which the individual may not assume the onus of proof and
demonstrate his contention." – Chris Lyspooner, Ludwig von Mises Institute -->

## What Government Really Is
The word **_Government_** is derived from the Latin verb **_Gubernare_** which means "to Control, to Rule, or to Direct". (just as was shown earlier with the etymological breakdown of the word "Sovereign", there is no "V sound" in classical Latin. This can be readily seen in the name of the ceremony for electing a governor; they are called **_Gubernatorial_** elections.) The second part of the word "Government" is derived from the Latin noun **_Mens_** which means **_Mind_**. Therefore, put together the word "Govern-ment" etymologically means "Mind Control".

::mono
Government is Mind Control
::

The etymological origin of the English suffix **_-ment_** is often debated, yet it is quite clear that those who created the English language deliberately chose **_Mens_** the Latin word for **_Mind_**, to mean "the State of-" or "the Condition of-", in direct keeping with the first Hermetic principle, the principle of Mentalism. Which demonstrates that in order for any particular event, circumstance, state or condition to exist in our current manifested reality (the plane of effects), it must first have existed in the mind (the plane of causality).

## The Illusion of Authority
Government is based on the illusory concept called "Authority". People that believe certain other people are authorities, means they believe that those individuals have rights that other people do not. Mainly, the rights to command, compel, coerce and constrain.

Authority is based upon an equally illusory concept called "Jurisdiction". The word
**_Jurisdiction_** is derived from the Latin noun **_Jus_** or **_Juris_** which means "Right, or Law", and the Latin verb **_Dictere_** which means "to Speak, or to Say". Thus, the word "Jurisdiction" literally means "to Say what the law is". In other words, to "make up" or to "decide" what the law is.

"Authority" is an illusion of a diseased psyche, based entirely in violence and built upon the false belief that some people are "masters" who have the moral right to issue commands, and that other people have a moral obligation to obey those commands. Simply put, slavery.

::mono
The belief in the legitimacy of "Authority" is the belief in the legitimacy of Slavery.
::

<span class="desc">Ultimately, "Authority" is the idea that man can become God, and through jurisdiction, dictate the law, and dictate what is right and wrong.</span>

The concept of government and the concept of authority are forms of (false) religion, yet most people fail to see it that way. The word **_Religion_** is derived from the Latin verb **_Religare_** which means "to Tie back, to Hold back, to Thwart from forward progress, or to Bind.’

A false religion is a system of control based in unchallenged, dogmatic belief which holds back the progress of consciousness.

::mono
We should stop trying to make our religion truth, and start making truth our religion.
::

## The One True Divide
There is only one true divide that separates humanity into two distinct types of individuals. The criterion for this divide is whether or not a person believes in “authority,” and therefore believes that there is legitimacy to slavery. That is the only divide which truly separates us.