---
cat: Base
title: Statism vs. Anarchy
id: '32'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=4994"></youtube>

## Statism
A Statist is a person who erroneously believes that there is such a thing as “authority” vested in certain people, giving them the “right” to rule over others. This “authority” means that certain people, who call themselves ‘government,’ have the moral right to issue commands to those whom they rule (those under their jurisdiction), and that their subjects (slaves) have a “moral obligation” to obey the arbitrary dictates (laws) set by their “masters.” 

::mono
Most simply put, a statist is someone who believes in the legitimacy of slavery.
::

## Anarchy
Conversely, an Anarchist is a person that knows there could never be legitimacy to “authority” or “government” because those terms are simply euphemisms for violence and slavery, which are always immoral and in opposition to Natural Law.

The word **_Anarchy_** is derived from the Greek prefix **_An-_** (αν-) which means "Without, or the Absence of" and the Greek noun **_Archon_** (αρχων)’ which means "Master, or Ruler". Anarchy does not mean "Without rules". It literally means "Without Rulers, or Without Masters". 

The only permanent rules that are in place, are the ones of Natural Law.

::mono
No Masters = No Slaves
::

It seems self-evident that Anarchy is the true meaning of freedom, and yet, when you ask a  person what anarchy means (to them), and what they associate it with, the answer will most likely be: rioting, looting and destroying other people’s property, in one word; chaos. Which is literally the exact opposite of what anarchy truly is.