---
cat: Base
title: Moral Culpability
id: '35'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=6410"></youtube>

## Definition
Moral culpability is the determination of who is ultimately at fault, or deserving of blame for
the commission of actions which resulted in harm or loss for others.

## Etymology
The word **_Culpable_** means "at Fault, or Deserving of blame", it is derived from the Latin noun **_Culpa_** which means "Fault, or Blame".

::mono
The people that act out a certain behaviour and cause harm, loss, chaos or trauma to others
always carry blame.
::

**Who actually carried out the holocaust in Germany?**  
The people that followed the orders to do so; therefore, order-followers is the answer. And they are always in the form of police or military; this is why a totalitarian state is referred to as a "Police State." Because they are the people ultimately responsible for bringing that condition into manifestation through their behaviour.

## Police State
The order giver (president,  mayor, judge etc.) makes a command, the order-follower obeys without question, and through their behaviour make that condition a reality; that"s why it"s called a police state. Because every police state that has ever existed, has
always been created by police following orders. Because they don't want to think for themselves, they don't want the personal responsibility and they don't want to truly know the difference between right and wrong for themselves, like a responsible adult person would.

::todo
Insert Figure
::

Note that the term "MORE" is underlined and capitalized; the order givers are also morally culpable, that is not the question. The question is “Who is MORE morally culpable?” The answer is always the order-follower, at any time, in any place.

The people on the left aren"t the actual cause of what happened on the picture in the middle; all they did was sign some pieces of paper, and told the people on the right: “Go and bomb/shoot/kill these people” and they said “Yes, sir” and went right ahead and committed whatever wrong-doings they were commanded, without questioning at all if what they had been ordered to carry out is right or wrong behaviour.

::todo
Insert Figure
::

The order-follower always bears more moral culpability that the order-giver, because the order-follower is the one who actually performed the action, and in taking such action, brought the resulting harm into physical manifestation. Order-following is the pathway to every form of evil and chaos in our world. Again, it should never be seen as a virtue by anyone who considers themselves a moral person. Order-followers have ultimately been personally responsible and morally culpable for every form of slavery and every single totalitarian regime that has ever existed.

