---
cat: Base
title: Responsibility vs. Abdication
id: '36'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=6828"></youtube>

## Responsibility

<span class="desc">The ability to respond.</span>

An individual’s personal responsibility to choose right action over wrong action for themselves is always their own. One can only (falsely) claim that they are abdicating personal
responsibility for such choice to someone else, it can never actually be done in reality. It’s merely a claim when an order-follower says, “I am not personally responsible, because this person told me to do it” and what it actually truly is, is just a lie. More simply put...

::mono
Every individual is <u>always responsible</u> for their own actions
::

>“Accept responsibility for yourself and your actions, thoughts, and words. You alone make choices. You alone are answerable to the consequences of your behaviour. The feeble excuse that your boss required it, or the establishment expected it, holds no truth or justification.”  
<i class="text-xs pt-4 block -mb-4"><b>David Icke</b>, English Author</i>

Lots of people erroneously believe that they can hand over their Natural Law right to defend themselves to another individual, or entity. In making such a false claim, they have attempted to abdicate a responsibility which always belongs to them, and can’t be wholly given away.

>“Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither, and will lose both.”  
<i class="text-xs pt-4 block -mb-4"><b>Benjamin Franklin</b>, one of the Founding Fathers of the U.S.A.</i>