---
cat: Base
title: Self Loathing vs. Self Respect
id: '37'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=7162"></youtube>

<span class="desc">People who don’t want to take responsibility and become adult human beings are in the psychological condition of <b class="font-bold underline">Self Loathing</b>. What this means is, they hate themselves; nobody that wants to perpetuate slavery can possibly love themselves.</span>

::mono
The states of Self Loathing and Self Respect cannot exist simultaneously, for they are contradictory psychological conditions.
::

## Self Loathing
Self-loathing is the underlying psychological condition that causes people to attempt to abdicate their own personal responsibility to exercise conscience, and fall into patterns of order-following and justification. Just as it is not possible for an order-follower to truly be exercising conscience; it is also not possible for an order-follower to truly love themselves.


Self-loathing is created when an earlier trauma has been buried into the subconscious mind, instead of being confronted, dealt with, and healed. Such trauma could form feelings of inadequacy; whether they are real, suggested, or simply imagined. A mind-set as such is a psychological prison, and yet, people suffering from self-loathing
usually don’t seem to have any desire for true freedom - **They are in the cage, and they love being in the cage.**

::mono
The only kind of people that have no desire for real freedom, are people in the psychological state of self-loathing, that do not love themselves.
::

## Self Respect
Self-respect heals self-loathing. It is about introspection (observation or examination of one's own conscious thoughts and emotional state).

The word **_Respect_** is derived from the Latin prefix **_Re-_** which means "Again" and the Latin verb  **_Spectare_** which means "to Look at, or to Take another look at oneself". This is where true respect starts.

You cannot give somebody something that you don’t already own yourself. If you don’t have $10,- in your pocket you could impossibly give it to someone else. You must obtain it first, before you can give it away. Therefore, nobody can give respect to anybody else unless they first developed it inwardly.

Self-respect must come first, which is why people in the state of self-loathing don’t respect anybody, least of all themselves. Only self-respect can heal self-loathing, and therefore help put an order-follower on the path to exercising conscience.