---
cat: Base
title: The Lost Word
id: '38'
---
<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=7583"></youtube>

<span class="desc">The lost word is a concept in esoteric Freemasonry which represents a state of consciousness that has been largely <b class="font-bold underline">"lost"</b> to the majority of people.</span>

## Balanced Consciousness
In order to speak the lost word, a person must work upon themselves in order to achieve a state of equilibrium (balance) between the left and right brain hemispheres.

In such a state of balanced consciousness, the individual has come to know the self (microcosm), as well as the working operations of Natural Law (macrocosm), and in doing so has come to understand the objective difference between right and wrong behaviour. Or as they are referred to in Freemasonry, "**Light** (Knowledge)" and "**Darkness** (Ignorance)".

## The Word of All Power
In the balanced state of consciousness generated through the knowledge of Natural Law, a person is finally able to speak the lost word, which is - "**No**".

In Freemasonry it is considered to be the word of all power. When we say no to those who claim to be our owners, those who claim that they will decide which rights we have or do not have, only then do we stop externalizing our power to anyone outside of ourselves and in doing so, reclaim all of our
rights (all of our property). Sadly, very few people in our world have the **knowledge, care, and courage** that is required to do this. That is why this powerful word is considered to be "lost".

## Know your Rights
The reason you have to know what the difference between right and wrong is, and therefore know what rights you have and which you do not have, is because those who don’t know, won’t say no (to somebody who claims to be their owner).