---
cat: Base
title: Shift Happens
id: '40'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=7879"></youtube>

## Quantum Shift
A ‘Quantum Shift’ in human consciousness is required for humanity to become free of its self-imposed state of slavery.

Unfortunately, this great change is not an automatic process, nor is it guaranteed to happen at all. Anybody who thinks that’s the case is very naïve, overly positive, and in some form of right-brain imbalance. Whether or not this shift will occur mainly relies on the human will to learn the truth and teach it to others. This involves enormous effort, dedication, and persistence. We cannot give up.

There is a saying in Alchemy that has been referred to as the "catchphrase of the alchemical tradition", the saying goes: **_Labore et constantia_** which means "Work and constancy". Constant effort is going to be required to get this boulder up the mountain, and in the condition in which humanity finds itself today, it will most likely go kicking and screaming.

Teaching Natural Law to others is not an easy task, it usually isn’t fun, and we’re definitely not going to get it done in a day. Therefore, we are going to have to continually work hard on this matter, or the quantum shift simply will not happen at all.

## Requirements

A Quantum Shift Has Requirements. The word quantum is derived from the (same) Latin noun **_Quantum_** which means "Amount". In order to tip the scales of truth and justice back into balance, a certain amount of people actually need to be doing the Great Work of helping other people to receive this knowledge of Natural Law. Simply put, higher amounts of people are required.

Individual behavioral choices, either based in harmony or in opposition to Natural Law, combine in energy and effect, and in the aggregate, influence the quality of the manifested shared human experience; we collectively create our shared experience. This dynamic acts as a perfect expression of the principle of Correspondence: "As above, so below; as below, so above." Decisively contrary to the "New age" view.

::mono
In order for a quantum shift to happen, higher numbers of people are required.
::