---
cat: Base
title: At the Crossroads
id: '42'
---

<youtube id="fUoLr8Gs6vE" params="rel=0&start=10418"></youtube>

The conditioning of our thoughts is what has kept us in this prison, and only now are some people beginning to see the actual depth of it. 

>“The Dark Ages still reign over all of humanity, and the depth and persistence of this domination are only now becoming clear. This dark age prison has no steel bars, chains, or locks. Instead, it is locked by disorientation and built on misinformation. Caught up in a plethora of conditioned reflexes and driven by the human ego, both warden and prisoner attempt meagrely to compete with God. All are intractably sceptical of what they do not understand. We are powerfully imprisoned in these dark ages simply by the terms in which we
have been conditioned to think.” – Richard Buckminster Fuller, American Inventor

## Post Apocalyptic Era
We are living in ‘Post-Apocalyptic’ times, in the literal sense of the word. The word ‘Apocalypse’ is derived from the Greek prefix ‘Apo- (απο)’ which means ‘Away from / Off / Removed from’ and the Greek verb ‘Calyptein (καλυπτειν)’ which means ‘to Cover / to Conceal,’ hence the word apocalypse literally means ‘to Reveal’ or ‘to Take out of hiding.’ Therefore, the apocalypse simply means the revealing of truth. The veil has already been lifted, and the truth about what has been, and still is going on here on Earth is already out there, and available for most people to find.

## The Cosmic Apology
We have to make, what has been called "The Cosmic Apology". The word ‘Apology’ is made up of the Greek prefix ‘Apo- (απο)’ which means ‘Away from / Off / Removed from’ and the Greek noun ‘Logos (λόγος)’ which means ‘Word.’ Hence apology literally means ‘to Go away from the word’ (to take back something you said), or ‘to Give back the word.’ If a person says something they didn’t really mean, or something they want to retract, they apologise; they are “moving away from” what they have said.

The Greek noun ‘Logos’ is derived from the Greek verb ‘Lego (λεγω)’ which means ‘to Speak / to Say’ (this is where the English word ‘Lexicon’ comes from). The Latin noun ‘Lex / Legis (Law)’ is also derived from this same Greek verb. God, not man, is the author (authority) of law; the one who brought the law into existence.

Humanity’s work is to learn to listen to God’s word, which is, Natural Law, spiritual law, moral law, God’s law; and to align its behaviour to that law.

Humanity must make this Cosmic Apology by giving the word (authorship of law) back to God, and collectively aligning its behaviour with Natural Law. This is accomplished when we open our minds and hearts to truth, and when we start saying the lost word ‘No’ to those who claim to be our owners.

The very beginning of this guide started out with the chapter ["Before we begin"](/lessons/before-we-begin).

<b>Now we have begun --></b>

::mono
it’s up to you to take it further. What you will eventually do with this knowledge is entirely in your hands.
::