---
title: The Real Natural Law
id: 'Knowledge Base / 00'
# path: before-we-begin
# description: All is mental
# img: /images/posts/mentalism.jpg
# alt: Mentalism
---

<div class="mt-10 mb-24 w-40 h-40 md:w-56 md:h-56 lg:w-72 lg:h-72 xl:w-80 xl:h-80">
  <svg xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" viewBox="0 0 546 546" class="stroke-[10] fill-none stroke-black dark:stroke-white">
    <ellipse class="sol-ment oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="273" cy="273"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-corr oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="273" cy="145"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-vibr oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="384" cy="209"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-pola oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="384" cy="337"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-rhyt oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="273" cy="401"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-caus oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="162" cy="337"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-gend oval oval-sm fill-none" rx="128" ry="128" cx="162" cy="209"/>
    <ellipse class="sol-care oval oval-lg fill-none" rx="256" ry="256" cx="273" cy="273"/>
  </svg>
</div>

<div class="flex px-4 py-2 mb-8 font-mono text-xs border">
  As a whole, the body of knowledge presented here has the potential to save humanity from our current state of slavery.
</div>

<hr class="my-8 border border-b-4">

## Before We Begin

This first section is called before we begin, and "begin" is the key word here.
<span class="desc">This Knowledge-Base is an initiation into very deeply esoteric material, that has been hidden from humanity for decades.</span>

If you feel that the current human condition and life on Earth are tolerable just the way they are, and you are content with our global situation as it is now, then there is nothing for you to find here. The information you will encounter in this thesis is not new information. While it will most likely be new to most who read it, all of this information can be found in numerous different books, seminars, and lectures written by numerous different people.


<hr class="border-b">

## Key Concepts & Requirements:

<hr class="my-8 border-b-4">

## 1. Put Feelings Aside

Some of you are likely to be angered by some of the things you are about to read, so be it. The fact of the matter is that truth itself, by its very nature, is belligerent; because it “wages war” against all forms of falsehood and deception. If you wish to take away any real value from reading this thesis, you should make a deliberate effort to be consciously aware of any impulses you may have to reject certain information presented, solely based on your initial emotional reaction to it.

## 2. Avoid Logical Fallacies

It is a logical fallacy to gauge the veracity (truthfulness) of any information based on how you feel when first hearing it; because you cannot “think” with the emotions. If you read something you don’t like, or something that angers you, that’s okay, feel the emotion.
But don’t immediately tell yourself it can’t be true.

## 3. Do Due Diligence

Of course you shouldn’t just believe anything you read here either; it’s about checking the information for yourself, and to actually start researching this material for yourself.
And this is a great place to start that journey.

## 4. Stay Objective

However, this entire thesis is a tapestry. Like pieces of a huge jigsaw puzzle; it is meant to be seen and taken in as a whole, in its entirety.

## 5. Recognize Patterns

It is highly recommended that you read the entire thesis from beginning to end, otherwise, you will most likely not recognise the patterns inherent to the tapestry.

## 6. Value Truth
As the old saying goes: “There is nothing new under the sun.” This simply means that truth is singular and eternal. It has always been here and will always be here; it is our perceptions that must be aligned to it.
